The methodological approach follows the operational definitions of forest, deforestation, and regeneration published in the REDD+ Action Plan (2016-2025) "Forests for Good Living," officially established through Agreement No. 116 of the Ministry of Environment, dated November 7, 2016.

### Gross Deforestation

It is a process of anthropogenic conversion of forest into another land cover and use; under the thresholds of height, canopy coverage, or area established in the forest definition over a period of time, without considering regeneration areas during the same period. The term excludes areas of forest plantations removed as a result of harvest or logging, and areas where trees were extracted due to forest exploitation, and where the forest is expected to regenerate naturally or with the help of silvicultural techniques, unless the harvesting is followed by the cutting of remaining trees to introduce alternative land uses.

### Natural Forest Regeneration

It is the recovery of native forest through natural processes or anthropogenic activities. As a result of this process, secondary forests appear in different stages of development.

### Net Deforestation

It is the difference between the loss and gain of forest area (gross deforestation minus forest regeneration) over a period of time.

### Definition of Native Forest

An arboreal ecosystem, primary or secondary, regenerated by natural succession; characterized by the presence of trees of different native species, ages, and varying sizes, with one or more strata. Source: Ministry of Environment, 2016.

### Definition of Forest Plantation

Tree mass anthropogenically established with one or more forest species. Source: Ministry of Environment, 2011.
